# How to integrate Zymbit with AWS Credentials Provider
This exact same tutorial is on https://community.zymbit.com/t/1144. It looks much better there.
# Introduction
---
It is impossible to guarantee the successful operation of a remote device indefinitely. The number of ways a device can be attacked may be infinite. The highest security standard then must assume remote devices can be penetrated at any time and plan for their failure.

From this, it is crucial to have the ability to identify and silence specific devices from a fleet. This requires two parts:
1. Provide a unique identity for each device.
2. Manage the allowed operations of each device.

A unique device ID allows an administrator to specify what device to target. An ID can be generated by a hash of serial numbers and other unique device identifiers.

To manage device operations requires a central server to store and index device certificates, policies and attributes. Luckily, AWS IoT provides these features.

Using AWS IoT also allows device data to be used by other AWS cloud services. AWS services requires each IoT device to have valid credentials issued by AWS. The AWS credentials provider makes this process easy.


---
# Device Setup
---
There are four devices in the provisioning process:
  1. The provisioning device with AWS CLI installed
  2. The Certificate Authority
  3. The AWS Credentials Provider
  4. The IoT device(s) getting their credentials

If wanted, the CA and provisioning device can be on the same device.

---
## Setup the Provisioning Device


The provisioning device can be any device with AWS CLI installed, but we recommend it not be an IoT device you deploy because the provisioning device will have more AWS permissions.
1. Install AWS CLI.
   - Instructions here: https://aws.amazon.com/cli/
2. Specify user for AWS CLI
   - Go to AWS IAM console, click users, add user, input a user name, and check programatic access.
   - Click Next:Permissions, "Attach existing policies directly", click AdministratorAccess
   - Click Next:Tags, Next:Review, Create user. Stay on this page.
   - On the provisioning device, run `aws configure` and fill in the appropriate values from the AWS page. 
     - For Default output format put json.
3. Run `git clone https://github.com/zymbit-applications/aws-credentials-provider.git`
4. Run `sudo mkdir /opt/zymbit`
---
## Setup the Certificate Authority

The Certificate Authority can be a private CA you own or you can use AWS's CA service.
If you want to create a CA on your own device, follow these instructions.

[details="Create a private CA"]
On the device you want to hold your private CA and sign certificate requests, do the following.
- Run `git clone https://github.com/zymbit-applications/aws-credentials-provider.git`
- Run `cd aws-credentials-provider`
- Run the mk_ca script: ```bash mk_ca.sh```

There are now three files in the directory (~/aws-credentials-provider/CA_files).
  - zk_ca.key
    - The private key for the CA, used for signing CSR's
  - zk_ca.pem
    - The certificate for the CA in PEM format
  - zk_ca.crt
    - The certificate for the CA
[/details]

If you have your own private CA, then you need to register it with AWS.

[details="Register certificate authority with AWS"]
Steps 1 and 6 are done on the provisioning device.
Steps 2-5 must be done on the private CA.

1. Copy the registration code for generating CA cert.
```
aws iot get-registration-code
```

2. Create a private key for AWS CA to verify against.
```
openssl genrsa -out verificationCert.key 2048
```

3. Create a CSR for your CA to sign
```
openssl req -new -key verificationCert.key -out verificationCert.csr
```

4. Put registration code in the Common Name field
```
Country Name (2 letter code) [AU]:
State or Province Name (full name) [Some-State]:
Locality Name (eg, city) []:
Organization Name (eg, company) [Internet Widgits Pty Ltd]:
Organizational Unit Name (eg, section) []:
Common Name (e.g. server FQDN or YOUR name) []: 9c9df696a8a09688d040b4b719129e4d6dbd6a898eeb0c654af0a5753b41
Email Address []:

Please enter the following 'extra' attributes
to be sent with your certificate request
A challenge password []:
An optional company name []:
```

5. Create a private key verification certificate for your CA. If you didn't follow our CA creation section, then the -CA and -CAkey file paths are likely different.
```
openssl x509 -req -in verificationCert.csr -CA CA_files/zk_ca.pem \
-CAkey CA_files/zk_ca.key -CAcreateserial -out verificationCert.crt \
-days 500 -sha256
```

6. Register CA certificate, set it as active and allow device certificates to
auto register.
```
aws iot register-ca-certificate --ca-certificate file://CA_files/zk_ca.crt \
                                --verification-certificate file://verificationCert.crt \
                                --set-as-active \
                                --allow-auto-registration
```

[/details]

---
## Setup AWS Credentials Provider
---
All of these steps happen on the **provisioning** device
1. Create an IAM role for credentials provider
   - `aws iam create-role --role-name credential_helper --assume-role-policy-document file://aws-credentials-provider/role-trust-policy.json`
2. Create a role alias linked to role
    - `aws iot create-role-alias --role-alias deviceRoleAlias --role-arn <roleARN>`
    - The roleARN is in the output of step 1, but you can run `aws iam get-role --role-name credential_helper` to find it again.
   - If this fails, the user you currently are may not have GetRole and PassRole permissions. The tab below gives instructions to add these permissions.

[details="Add permissions"] 
- Go to AWS IAM console
- Select Users
- Select the user you currently are on your provisioning device
- Click the permissions tab
- Click Add permissions
- Click "Attach existing policies directly"
- Click Create Policy
- Click the JSON tab
- Copy the user-pass-permissions.json file into the editor
  - Replace ACCOUNT_ID with your provisioning device user
    - You can find this by running ```aws sts get-caller-identity``` on your provisioning device.
  - Replace ROLE_NAME with name given in the step above (e.g. ```credential_helper```)
- Click Next:Tags
- Click Next:Review
- Name the policy
- Click create.
[/details]

3. Create an IoT policy which allows role alias to be assumed with a certificate
   - In ~/aws-credentials-provider/iot-role-policy.json substitute:
     - REGION with the desired region
     - ACCOUNT_ID with the "Account" number found by running `aws sts get-caller-identity`
     - ALIAS with the name of the role alias created in step 2
   - Then run `aws iot create-policy --policy-name credentialHelper --policy-document file://aws-credentials-provider/iot-role-policy.json`

---
## Setup the IoT device getting credentials

1. Run `git clone https://github.com/zymbit-applications/aws-credentials-provider.git`
2. Run `sudo mkdir /opt/zymbit`
3. Run `sudo cp ~/aws-credentials-provider/credentials.sh /opt/zymbit/`
4. Edit `~/aws-credentials-provider/config` to specify the appropriate region.
5. Run `mkdir ~/.aws && cp ~/aws-credentials-provider/config ~/.aws/config`

---
# Provisioning an IoT Device
1. On the **IoT** device
     - Run ```openssl req -key nonzymkey.key -new -out zymkey.csr -engine zymkey_ssl -keyform e```
     - Fill in the request with the specified values
       -  The IoT Policy name, we used credentialHelper.
       - The desired AWS Region.
       - Credential Provider URL.
         - To find this, on the **provisioning** device run
           - `aws iot describe-endpoint --endpoint-type iot:CredentialProvider`
           - Copy  the cxxxxxxxxxxxxx part.
       - Role Alias name, we used deviceRoleAlias.
       - The Thing name, whatever you want to name this IoT device.
```
Country Name (2 letter code) [AU]:
State or Province Name (full name) [Some-State]: <IOT-POLICY>
Locality Name (eg, city) []: <REGION>
Organization Name (eg, company) [Internet Widgits Pty Ltd]: <CREDENTIAL-URL>
Organizational Unit Name (eg, section) []: <ROLE-ALIAS>
Common Name (e.g. server FQDN or YOUR name) []: <THING-NAME>
Email Address []:

Please enter the following 'extra' attributes
to be sent with your certificate request
A challenge password []:
An optional company name []:
```

2. Copy zymkey.csr from the **IoT** device to **CA** device. 
   - If using our CA tutorial, put csr in the aws-credentials-provider directory (~/aws-credentials-provider)
3. On the **CA** device, sign the CSR.
     - If using our CA tutorial, in ~/aws-credentials-provider, run ```bash sign_csr.sh zymkey.csr device.crt```. The first argument is the path to your CSR and the second argument the name you wish to give the signed device Certificate file.
4. Copy the device cert (device.crt) and root ca key from the **CA** device to the **provisioning** device.
   - If following our CA tutorial, the root ca key is CA_files/zk_ca.pem.
5. On the **provisioning device**, run:
   - `sudo cp device.crt /opt/zymbit/ && sudo cp root.ca.pem /opt/zymbit/`
   - `bash provision-device.sh`
     - The script will ask you a few questions, make sure everything is correct.
     - The script behind the scenes will:
       - Register device cert in AWS with root CA cert
       - Create a IoT Thing in AWS
       - Attach thing to device cert
       - Attach IoT policy to device cert
6. Once the script is done, transfer device.crt and root.ca.pem from the **provisioning** device to the **IoT** device.
7. On the **IoT** device, run:
   - `sudo mv device.crt /opt/zymbit/ && sudo mv root.ca.pem /opt/zymbit/`
   - `source /opt/zymbit/credentials.sh` to test the TLS connection.
   - If `echo $AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` returns a value, then your device has AWS credentials!
